---
layout: post
title: Summary of Loco-manipulation Papers
date: 2025-02-15
description: some notes on loco-manipulation papers, including legged robots, mobile manipulators, and so on.
tags: robotics
categories: paper-reading
---

### [UMI on Legs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10353)

1. scaling task-centric data in the real world without a robot.
2. scaling robot-centric data in simulation without task simulations. (training policies to track end-effector trajectories instead of interacting with objects)
3. using end-effector trajectories in the task-frame as the interface

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog/umi-on-legs.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

Two main components

1. a high-level diffusion-based manipulation policy (input wrist-mounted camera views and output sequences of end-effector pose targets)
2. low-level whole-body controller (tracking end-effecotr pose targets)

### [VBC](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.16967)

- a low-level control policy using all degrees of freedom to track the body velocities along with the end-effector position
- a high-level task-planning policy proposing the velocities and end-effector position based on visual inputs

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog/vbc.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

### [OmniGrasp](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11385)

Using a pretrained universal dexterous motion representation as the action space.

### [CatchIt!](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10319)

A two-stage RL Framework. The first stage is training the control policies for the base and arm in the tracking task. The second stage is training the hand's control policy while fine-tuning the base and arm's policy from the tracking task.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog/catchit.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

### [Pedipulate](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10837)

Using the legs of a legged robot for manipulation.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog/pedipulate.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

- train reinforcement learning-based pedipulation controller by training a policy that tracks foot position targets.
- Curriculum learning: adaptive command sampling from easy to hard tasks.

### [Learning Visual Quadrupedal Loco-Manipulation from Demonstrations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20328)

- BC at the high-level manipulation planning and RL at the low-level joint position control.
- parameterize the manipulation trajectory of the endeffector for better integration of RL and BC. (Bezier curve control points)

pipeline:
1. train RL-based trajectory tracking controller
2. collect data for planner (input: visual point cloud, robot state, output: end-effector trajectory)
3. train BC-based planner
4. deploy the system

### [Guided Reinforcement Learning for Robust Multi-Contact Loco-Manipulation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13817)

Use dynamically feasible demonstrations generated from a TO-based framework to guide the RL agent in learning complex behaviors.
